Okay guys.
So today we're gonna make, um, so we're gonna make paprika,
chips, so smoked paprika, tortilla chips,
and we're also gonna combine
them with a little bit of salsa.
So again, really rich in antioxidants, this recipe, um,
a wonderful way to include some
anti-inflammatory properties as well.
So we'll talk you down through all the health benefits
that come with all the
ingredients that we're gonna use today.
So again, to kickstart, we're gonna preheat our air fryer,
so kicking it on 200 degrees, sorry, 180 degrees,
not 200 degrees, because we'll be frying, uh,
frying our pit, our pit of chips.
So first of all, we're gonna start with our salsa.
So taking two tomatoes and we're gonna chop
them up nice and nice.
And finally, so that we are going
to have a nice consistency.
Again, if you want to use tinned tomatoes here, either, um,
it might be quicker, save you more time,
but today we are using some nice ripe
fresh plumped tomatoes.
Um, so we're coming into the summer season, so again,
we're getting really, really good nutrient quality coming in
through our tomatoes that we're getting.
Um, also thinking about all the antioxidant properties
that come with tomatoes.
So really rich in something called lysine
and lysine again, helps with overall heart health
and helping to maintain your blood sugar.
Um, also we've got potassium, which helps
with the fluid balance within your cells.
So tomatoes are a wonderful thing
to include in your diet if you're trying
to regulate your overall water balance in your body.
Um, thinking about your electrolytes, um,
if you're quite sporty, again, really, really good
to include these in your diet
to help balance out your overall sodium
potassium concentrations.
Okay. Um, also thinking about the vitamin C
content in tomatoes.
So vitamin C is really, really, um, good for helping
to absorb iron in your diet.
So combining that with say, chicken
or Turkey fish, again, really good sources of iron,
but tomato will help you absorb the iron from them.
If you're a vegetarian or a vegan, the iron
that you're gonna be getting in your diet isn't
as easily absorbed by the body.
It's non-heme, iron. Iron is what it's called.
So vitamin C really helps at absorbing the iron from non
plant or non-animal based sources of protein.
Okay, so again, you don't have to be too perfectionist about
how you chop up your tomatoes.
Again, they're all gonna just go into your salsas and nice
and small and fine,
but again, they can be a bit messy at the same time.
Okay.
If you're not great at staying hydrated tomatoes, again,
any kind of juicy, um, high liquid based fruit
or vegetables can also help with your overall,
uh, hydration levels.
So including them in your diet if you're not great at
staying on top of your, your water content
intake, uh, during the day.
Okay. Once you've got them nice
and finally diced up here, we're gonna pop them in a bowl.
So add them into our big mixing bowl here
and we're gonna take our garlic then.
So two little cloves of garlic
and we're gonna grate that into our bowl.
So garlic, really rich in something called Allison
and Allison helps with your overall, um,
antioxidant properties,
but it also widens your blood prep blood vessels so
that your blood can flow a little bit more freely.
So again, promoting good heart health.
Okay, no one likes working with garlic,
always leaves your hands smelly.
So do have a nice anti back near you if you can,
or again, using lemon juice or lime juice
after grading, the garlic will help to combat the,
the lingering pungent smell that comes with,
okay, grading that in there.
It's quite a strong flavor off it.
So if you find that one clove is enough for you,
if you don't like too much garlic, that is perfectly fine.
We're gonna add two in here. Again,
really, really versatile as well as a herb.
So again, you can make your own homemade garlic bread, um,
adding it into any kind of dishes, pasta dishes
as well helps you bring up the flavor
and all the other food in your diet as well.
It's antibacterial as well. So really, really good.
If you do find that you tend to pick up cold flus
or illnesses or anything like that, it does help
to keep your immune system nice and strong.
Okay, Say it again.
Hair fry is preheated and it's letting me know.
Um, we've got our vitamin C then coming in
through our lime juice.
I can add that into our salsa.
I'm gonna use a whole lime here as well just to bring up
as much flavor in the tomatoes
and get everything uh, kicking.
You'll find that acid base as well help to kind
of bring up the nutrients in the other, uh,
nutrient compounds in the other foods that you're including.
So we've got our onion again, adding in this rich source
of El Flavanols plant flavanols,
um, cetin being one of them.
Okay, so we're gonna mix that all together there.
Now you can see nice blend
and then we're gonna add in some coriander.
So coriander again really helps boost the enzymes in your
body, which help to balance your blood sugar levels
or control your blood sugar levels.
Okay, so again, another lovely herb
to include in your overall, um, in your overall diet.
So just to bring up the flavor again,
we're gonna add a little bit of black pepper in all the
antioxidant properties that come with black pepper too,
um, and salt as well.
So with pepper, again, it's a really good source
of vitamin K vitamin
and vitamin K is really good at boosting your bo
or it's helping with your bone health.
Okay? So it helps with your bone
and production of osteoblasts.
Osteoblasts helps with the building of your bones.
So again, something really,
really good to include in your diet.
Easy to access always on every table.
So something to include
to help boost the nutrient absorption
from all your other foods.
Again, just to keep in mind,
we have loads more recipes like this on our app.
So head out to the academy section on our app,
have a little look and see what else is available there.
Okay, so we're just gonna tip
this into our little bowl here.
So we've got our salsa ready to go,
and then we're gonna start toasting our, um, pity chips.
Okay, so we're gonna start with our pity chips now.
So I'm gonna keep calling them pity chips.
You can call them tortilla chips,
call 'em whatever you wanna call them.
Nachos. Oh,
I think pity chips sounds a little bit healthier.
So we've got two little mini wraps.
Again, we're gonna put them one on top of the other
and we're gonna spritz them with olive oil.
Olive oil, again, really good for your heart health.
Really good for anti-inflammatory purposes.
So if you tend to suffer with tight muscles, sore muscles,
sore limbs, anything like that,
and a little bit of extra olive oil into your diet.
Dry skin, again, really good to help, um,
with your overall lubrication is what we'll say.
So we're gonna put our two little pit of pit of breads
or two little tortilla wraps on top of each other
and we're gonna cut them into four.
Okay, so into quarters.
Then we're gonna turn our board
and again, cut them into,
cut them in half, cut them into a quarter.
Careful they don't slide down yet.
And then you're gonna cut them into your eights
so you can start to see we're getting our nice little
triangles, like our nachos appearing here.
Okay. And we're gonna take
our spice.
So we've got paprika, nice little kick again,
you can use any spice you want to use here.
So you could use nutritional yeast again
to bring up your B 12 levels.
If you're vegan or vegetarian, you could use orano.
Um, you could do Italian mixed herbs.
Um, you could do whatever you like, occasion chili
or even just a cracked black pepper and salt nacho.
Okay? And maybe even get adventurous
and make it a little bit sweet and add some cinnamon.
So again, you're just gonna turn them all over.
Adding your little sprinkle of paprika.
Again, paprika really rich in those
anti-inflammatory properties.
So all these herbs and spices, it's fantastic to think
that they're so easy to access.
You can pick them up in any supermarket
and keep them in your cupboard there.
And you have access to those medicinal properties,
plant-based medicinal properties, um, at your hand.
Okay?
You'll see they're nicely coated there, ready to go.
And then we're just gonna lay them into our air fryer.
So our air fryer is preheated,
and what we're gonna do again,
is just grease the bottom of it.
So we are gonna just take our spray oil.
Again, spray oils are great if you're trying
to manage your overall energy intake, maintain
or balance your weight as, as per se.
Um, because you get a nice little dash
and a little goes a long way when it comes to oils as well.
So we're just gonna lay them all out in our basket. Okay?
So you'll see that we're just, we don't want them touching.
If they end up touching
or layering, they mightn't get the full crispiness
that you're meant to get with your air fryers.
You, you'll find that they are a little bit soggy,
a little bit limp and lifeless looking.
Again, you might have to do two rounds,
so you might get them all cooked in the one go, but try
and space them out nice and
evenly in the base of your basket.
Okay?
Okay. And we're gonna pop 'em in here then for
between 10 and 12 minutes again.
And we're rolling. We'll pop these in
when the other ones are done.
So we're gonna turn them halfway.
So six minutes in, flip them over so
that both sides get nicely, co nicely toasted,
and then we'll pop these ones in when they're done.
Okay? So there's a great smile kicking.
So we're gonna take them out now
and we're gonna flip them halfway through.
Okay? So just making sure that they're all nicely turned so
that everything is getting toasted okay?
Until they're gonna be yummy as well.
There's a lovely crisp, um, scent.
Okay, so back in for another few.
Okay, so they're finished now.
Plate it up, ready to take a chip and dip.
Um, again, a lovely nice summary snack to have.